+++
title = "Considering Myself to Just Work Overseas"
date = "2025-01-29"
slug = "considering-myself-to-just-work-overseas"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["thought"]
+++

Today, when I'm writing this, is a rather important day for me and for many people in my country.
We talk a lot about our president's first 100 days of his presidency.
Including his vice president of course but people (including me) don't really care about him.
Well, we will not talk about the president or the vice president specifically because, you know, the focus is on the government under their rules.
I have been following many updates related to many things.
Starting from how's the government doing, how's the law enforcement doing, and even how's the citizens themselves doing.
So far, based on many factors, my verdict for their first 100 days work performance is **just to work overseas**.
I mean, us, the citizens, better to just move out from this country.

We have been talking quite a bit about the rulers. Who are they?
Well, I will not say who are they or from which country I am.
If you know, you know.

# Why Am I Staying in the First Place?

To be honest, I have been planning to move overseas for a while now.
My goal was to get a job and then move out.
Or, maybe, pursue a postgraduate degree outside.
However, my parents are reluctant to let me go.
I also have a girlfriend so I need to have an approval from her since I can't bring her.
Having a long distance relationship overseas will be quite difficult for both of us.
Thus, I'm staying a bit longer.

# Why Do I Want to Leave Now?

I will explain the reasoning below.
However, please note that there is no particular order.
Everything weighs the same.

## Opportunity Consideration

I have been working full-time as a software engineer in one of the biggest OTA companies in my country for at least four years now.
This is my first full-time job and I have never been to another company since I graduated with my undergraduate degree.
I'm staying with this company because I have enjoyed some of the challenges it offers.
It has been fun. I have learned a lot. It was a great experience for me.
However, it is not how it used to be.

I started as a product software engineer in a food delivery product team.
I own many features and initiatives in this team.
That's one of the reasons why working here is fun for me because I have the authority to make some changes.
I spend a lot of time (even outside of working hours) learning and researching to make sure that the product that I own is growing well.
Meaning that the system is secure, reliable, robust, performant, and cost-optimized.
The opportunity to grow was fantastic.

After about two years of working in the team, suddenly, we got the whole product to be discontinued.
It broke my heart because what I have been doing so far is now *useless*.
I lost all my sparks.
This might sound immature but I'm just a young software engineer who works on something that I love and then suddenly loses it all.
How do I recover from this? Sad to be me, I have not recovered.
I know that I need to heal myself and I'm now ready to get all that sparks again.

Unfortunately, even if I got all those sparks again, I think I would not get what I want.
Why is that? Because the company has changed.
The device that I use (laptop) is now restricted.
Even software installation needs to get permission from the IT team.
I lost all my appetite to explore anything on this device for the sake of the company.
Let's say, to improve the system that I'm developing (and maintaining) right now.
Well, I don't want to use my own device to do anything related to work.
I feel like they leash a chain on me.
To be fair, I do understand the reason why they are doing this. But still, I don't like it.
Also, they now use monitoring software on the device. I don't appreciate it.

To be fair, I can still work just fine.
I don't really care about all of that.
It is just that I don't feel nice about it.
I have my own side project to satisfy my hunger for exploration.
All is good.
But, I think, getting a new role in a new company does sound exciting.
I want to work on something else!

## Economic Growth is Concerning (Specifically for the Tech Startups)

We have been hit with layoff after layoff for the past few years.
We even have some just recently.
I will not mention any name.
Just take a look at the publication date of this post and then look for any layoff news specifically in the anonymous forum.
I don't know how many tech startups have ceased to exist these past few years exactly.
However, judging by the number of tech startups that are still kicking at the moment, we have lost many.
I can say this with confidence because we had a tech startup boom around 2016.
Is COVID the cause? I believe it is not that simple.

Actually, the one getting hurts is not only the tech startup in this case.
Many companies are bleeding as well.
For example, one of the biggest textile and garment company in our country is now officially went bankrupt.
Thousands of people lost their job because of this.

## Everything Feels Expensive

TBA.

## Questionable Law Enforcement

TBA.

## A Safe Haven for Bootlickers and Social Media Buzzers

TBA.

## I Don't Feel Safe

TBA.

## Feudalistic Mentality

TBA.

## Morality is Not Important Anymore

TBA.

## Citizens Are As Bad and Don't Want (Scared?) to Change

TBA.

## Ease of Doing Business is Worrying

TBA.

# Where Should I Go?

TBA.

# What's Next?

TBA.
